Dear LEMS VXL developers,

My student Caio Souza and I have recently promoted edge linker code from 

LEMS' brcv/seg/dbdet 
to 
VXL's contrib/brl/bseg/sdet

These initial efforts were coordinated with the original authors of both
the edge linker and the VXL sdet libraries (Amir Tamrakar, Ben Kimia et. al.).  

The main goal here is to be able execute the basic subpixel edge detector and
symbolic edge linker without disclosing the entire LEMS repository. We propose
the following policy to maintain the LEMS and the VXL versions of the edge
extraction technology towards such goal:

- Both the sdet and dbdet versions of the code will be lying around. The sdet
  version is meant to be stable, and the dbdet code is more experimental.
- Both sdet and dbdet will diverge in the future. The interested parties manage
  this as follows:
  - Improvements made to sdet are typically of the incremental kind which may
    introduce cleanups and API improvements. By monitoring these changes in git
    we can backport them to dbdet when needed.
  - Improvements made to dbdet are typically experimental, and so by monitoring
    the LEMS code and community we know when something new works well and should
    be promoted to sdet
  - Both of these situations require a closely monitored and hand-crafted
    approach which is only made feasible since the stable sdet code is useful on
    its on (even if the cross-merging of changes doesn't get carried out). These
    are not two git branches but are separate repositories tracking similar
    code.
  - cross-library tests in dbdet/algo/tests compare the sdet and dbdet versions of the
    code, so we can track significant changes and API compatibility.
- We encourage new users to use the more stable sdet library unless there is
  significant experimental functionality in dbdet.
  

The main changes we have carried out are outlined as follows

- We have implemented minor improvements to the available third order
  edge detector in sdet using recent changes from dbdet.
  - These improvements did not change the functionality of the edge detector,
  as shown by an automated test to compare the sdet and dbdet versions in
  dbdet/algo/test_edgemap 
  - Such test documents the API differences:
    - the dbdet edge detector API is just a function call
    - the sdet one is a class with separate parameters, which we also think
      works best and is more extensible.
  - The only internal difference from sdet to dbdet is the orientation inside
    the sdet edgel class (currently vdgl_edgel) which is represented by an angle
    theta sdet and by its tangent tan(theta) in dbdet. We are thinking about
    changing this to be uniform as well, to avoid slow conversions.
  - 

- Some pre and post-processing that was present in the symbolic edge linker
  process from dbdet/pro were put inside a dbpro-independent class/function


